---	
layout: default	
title: Calum	
permalink: /people/calum.html
---

# Calum

Calum, just Calum, was found in the midst of the worst storm in recent memory, quite by accident. Aiden, his now adoptive grandfather was travelling along the coast and quite by chance and possibly the will of the gods he heard two year old Calum screeching from the wreckage of the ship “Stormrider.” 
Aiden brought the toddler back to his family’s manor and gave him to his daughter Bridget who then raised Calum as her own along with her two biological daughters, Erin (6) and Kelly (4). 
While the clan was dark haired and hazel eyes Calum stood out at gatherings. His thick blonde hair and piercing blue eyes stood out among the family. His mother told him that when the ship wrecked he became one with the storm, lightning caused his hair to lighten and the rain pooled in his eyes, causing them to change color and that’s how he survived long enough for grandpa to find him. 
As Calum got older he began to wonder more and more of his origins. One day it became too much for his mother “I don’t know Calum, I really can’t explain how or why you’re here. Or how in god’s name you survived that storm! But all I know is that I am so happy you did. And we love you so much.” 
This sated him for a bit, but as he travelled beyond the manor and encountered more and more Briwithians his appearance fast caused more questions. Although no one ever made fun of him or betrayed him for it, it caused him a certain amount of discomfort, thankfully Riordan was always there, had his back through everything growing up, except when it came to fighting, Calum finished most of those. 
In his early teens he learned a great deal of combat techniques from his grandfather. It seemed to come almost too naturally to the young boy that his father, Alan began to worry about him a bit. 
Bridget and Aiden, however, found it incredible. He was the only grandchild to completely master Aidens “axe toss” which is exactly what it sounds like, except with a 2 handed battle axe or great axe. 
When Calum turned 15 he bid his family farewell and left the manor, looking for adventure. 

Soon after he enlisted in a mercenary group, The Fanged Goliath. Already having a background and some martial prowess Calum soon became a ground soldier in the ranks of this small army. They were mostly charged with uprooting bandit and goblin hideaways each battle Calum became stronger. He also learned a few simple magical cantrips from the Group’s mage. Who was impressed and surprised by the lads magical affinity. Rather then pursue this, Calum focused on martial combat, particularly the axe, great, battle, and hand axes, with a minor degree in short sword and shield. 
After 2 years of putting down small pockets of outlaws, the Fanged Goliath was hired by a shady Briwithian noble to help him put down a rebellion in his territory. 
The militia itself proved to be little trouble, Calum slew many of his own countrymen that day. After a three month campaign, the FG had dealt with all but one are of rebels. They came upon the town and Calum soon realized that there weren’t any rebels near this village, because he was on the recon team who scouted the town prior to the battle. Before he could give his report, a fellow soldier named Angus blurted out to commander Vex how there were hundreds of soldiers in the garrison and we should attack swiftly. Calum was absolutely dumbfounded head swirling, wishing his cousin was here to explain what was happening he felt so helpless as the FG moved in on the city, “No, no this..no this is wrong.” Calum kept whispering as he marched with his comrades into the unprotected settlement. 

Vex was more than happy to oblige, and the FG was brutally efficient; the sounds, smells, and sights of carnage were quickly overwhelming.

“No, no no this is wrong. No.” Calum whispered as he walked through the city, sky darkening.

“No..this is wrong.” A flash of lighting was the last thing Calum remembered before arriving home, months later. 

> The deposing of Laserian is an incomplete chapter in the history of our island, made stranger by its recency and the intensity of debate around it. Having happened only a decade or so ago, eyewitnesses and written records abound, but are hard to reconcile. It's well known that, after the destruction of the Fanged Goliath, Laserian tried to leave the isle but was caught inside a barrel in the hull of a cargo ship before being executed and his lands transferred to the Ardli - Oadhan son of Oisin. This was a well attended event in the public square, and while the details of the apprehension may have been exaggerated, the man was caught and executed, with both acts logged in the histories of multiple Iseali in attendance. What is disputed is what happened to the Fanged Goliath.
> 
> It is known that they defeated a local force near the town of Waeldestone and arrived at the town of Fallholt and began to sack it, during which a massive storm hit the town and surrounding area. At Fallholt, the vast majority of the men perished, and the others vanished. The simplest conclusion, and one held by most, was that the mercenaries must have fallen to infighting, like so many companies before. But the Goliath had kept a reputation of discipline - the commander, Mecistes Vex, had been operating the company for years after being expelled from his generalship in Hesseandum. He was never accused of lacking control of his forces, and so this theory does not seem to be accurate. (_I feel that I must note here that there is a somewhat commonly held theory that some of the more powerful individuals in Hesseandum are, in fact, **dragons**. This is of course no more than a folk tale, but it was a reputation that Vex seemed to embrace, sometimes taking the moniker of the Fanged (Grey) Dragon. At times he did seem more bloodthirsty beast than man._) A second theory - one that I must qualify by saying that it is the one that I hold - is that in the confusion of the storm, some members of the previously defeated local forces formed a small resistance, wearing clothes and uniforms taken off of members of the company that they had slain. In the night and the storm, this resistance may have been able to take advantage of their knowledge of the town, and sow enough confusion that the Goliath soon fell upon its own members, and the resistance was able to finish the job. Some men of the local militia claim that this is what happened, and indeed it seems like the most likely to have happened - after all, all events are merely a sum of their coincidences. 
> 
> However, the inhabitants of Fallhot are adamant that something else happened. They claim that the storm that night was like no other storm they had ever seen and that the storm itself slew the Fanged Goliath. There is no debate in the town - every person there agrees on this. Perhaps they are doing so to conceal the truth (which does lend credence to the theory above, with the stolen uniforms), or perhaps there is some blight on the town's water or fields that causes hallucinations - or perhaps the inhabitants, like the rest of us, don't know the truth either, and have developed their own theory to explain the events. There is still one thing that complicates this conclusion - two men who had never met each other both stated that they saw the same impossibility on that night. They each claimed that they saw a Stormbinder leading the storm (there is no record of a Stormbinder being set outside of Hesseandum or Ouxipparus in the last century), and both claimed that the man wore the uniform of the Fanged Goliath and wielded a Briwithian battleaxe. I note this here not because I believe or doubt it's veracity, but because the record and knowledge of the Stormbinders is so sparse that even a record as doubtful as this may prove useful when compared to other snippets of knowedge.
> 
> -- From _The Histories of Briwith under Oisin and the Events that Occurred in the Years Following His Death_, by Maeleachlainn Mac Riada

After returning home, Calum settled into a simpler, calmer life. He farmed and helped Aiden in his old age until his death in Calum's twenty-second year, when he and Riordan set off from the family's holdings to move to the city and open a bar, which eventually turned into a front for more _extralegal_ activities. Their success attracted the eye of the Ardli, who they were able to fool for a year or so before afreeing to work under his employment. In time, they became valuable members of Oadhan's court, and were sent to Hesseandum ostensibly act as ambassadors and ensure that Briwith was not invaded, but they were also given a more important task: to weaken Hesseandum. Instabilities should be pounced on and widened, internal strife should be fanned, and leadership should be weakened wherever it could be done without being traced back to Briwith.
