---	
layout: default	
title: Riordan	
permalink: /people/riordan.html
---
# Riordan Ullan McWard

Riordan Ullan McWard was born to Aedan Declan McWard and Eireann Gealbán McWard, in Baile Gealbán, on the 25th day of Sun's Dawn in the year 1991. He was the 8th of 9 children. On his mother's side, he had 12 aunts and uncles, all of whom had large families of their own and lived in Baile Gealbán. Altogether, Riordan had one hundred and four first cousins, and one hundred and ninety eight first cousins once removed, and they all lived in Baile Gealbán. The total population of the village was three hundred and eighty seven, aand over three hundred and thirty of them were Gealbáns. 

There were many neighboring villages within less than a days walk, but family bailes like the Gealbáns' were uncommon. While Briwithian families tended to be large, the Gealbán clan was one of the largest; the largest in southern Briwith, and the third largest in all of Briwith. 

Aedan had been a adventuring bard who fell in love when he met Eirreann. At the age of 24, he settled down, married, and quickly got to work having children. Over the next twenty years, he and Eirreann had nine children: five boys and four girls. In order, they were Bron (m45), Murphy (m43), Gannon (m41), Keara (f39), Grady (m36), Moira (f34), Siobhan (f31), Riordan (m28), and Taryn (f25). He was 49 when he fell in battle. Riordan was eight years old, and Taryn was only five. 

One of the lords, Breácan MacCearan, had gotten exceptionally greedy and was imposing severe taxes on the clans under his rule. It soon reached a point at which they could not pay, and Breácan began sending troops to forcibly take crops and cattle. This was the last straw, and the clans banded together to overthrow MacCearan. The battle took place on a foggy morning in early spring, and was known ever since as the Battle of the Mist. Four clans, the Gealbáns, the Finnegans, the Carneys, and the Scullys, sent their best and bravest to oust Breácan MacCearan. United, they called themselves the Free Clans. The Free Clans sent three hundred men between them against MacCearan's force of four hundred and fifty: two hundred clanless, one hundred and fifty foreign conscripts, and one hundred MacEaran fighters.

The clans united and marched on the Great Greenfield, the sprawling commons which MacCearan's baile overlooked. From the Great Greenfield to the sharpened wooden walls of MacCearan's baile, there was over half a mile of sloped hill. MacCearan's troops gathered on the hillside of the baile and his clanless rained arrows on the Free Clan troops, but the Free Clans pressed forward and climbed the hill, covering themselves with their shields, determined to take the baile. MacCearan's foreign conscripts had a light cavalry of about ninety, and as the Free Clans raced up the hill, the horsemen raced down. The clash rocked the Free Clan troops, and they very nearly scattered under the battering assault of the cavalry.

But suddenly, when hope seemed lost, the skirling of bagpipes rolled out of the trees behind the Free Clan troops, across the Great Greenfield from the baile. After his father and all of his older brothers had left for battle, Riordan snuck away from his mother and sisters, grabbed his bagpipes, and rode like hell after the Free Clan troops. As he played the Gealbán March, his father rallied the troops and stormed the baile, cutting their way through the cavalry and the archers and pulling down the fortifications. Breácan MacCearan was tossed into his own prison to rot, and Baile MacCearan was renamed Baile Clanmoot, and was established as the seat of leadership for the Free Clans. The Gealbáns, the Finnegans, the Carneys, and the Scullys now govern themselves through seasonal meetings at Baile Clanmoot. Every three months, the leaders of the Four Clans meet and discuss policy, but for all intents and purposes each Clan governs itself and pays taxes to no one.
